---
author: Robert Wagner
authorId: rwwagner90
categories: 
  - blog
  - ember
  - fastboot
  - offline first
  - prember
  - prerender
  - static
  - service workers
date: '2018-04-27'
slug: offline-first-prember-and-service-workers
title: Offline First Prember Apps with Service Workers
---

## Offline First Prember Apps with Service Workers

[ember-service-worker](http://ember-service-worker.com/) is an amazing Ember addon, that makes adding service workers, and offline first support, to your Ember app a breeze.
It always "just worked" out of the box for my vanilla Ember apps, but once I started making static sites with Prember, I ran into some unique challenges. The main 
difference is, a normal Ember app just has one `index.html`, but a Prember app has one per route. This makes caching the html, with service workers, much harder, and 
it will be our next topic in the series on [Static Blogs with Prember and Markdown](https://shipshape.io/blog/static-blogs-with-prember-and-markdown/).

### Installation

Just like a normal app, you'll want to start by installing `ember-service-worker` itself.

```bash
ember install ember-service-worker
```

`ember-service-worker` supports plugins, so I decided to write one for Prember support, [ember-service-worker-prember](https://github.com/shipshapecode/ember-service-worker-prember).
It is also just a simple install away.

```bash
ember install ember-service-worker-prember
```

This plugin is set to run `after` Prember, and searches through the output generated by Prember, looking for `html` files. It then reads those files, and generates a hash, based 
on the html content, which is used as the key for the html file in the service worker cache. As long as the content does not change, the hash will remain the same, and the cached 
version will be loaded, but if the content changes, the hash will change, the cache will be busted, and the html will be loaded fresh again, and a new version will be cached. This 
technique, and implementation are heavily based upon this [amazing article](https://www.voorhoede.nl/en/blog/instant-static-web-pages-with-service-worker/), which really helped me 
wrap my head around these concepts.

### Configuration

Configuration *should* be entirely optional, but service workers are sometimes tricky, and you want to manually bust your cache, and be double sure everything pulls the latest version.
If you want to do that, you can bump the `version` in your `ember-cli-build.js`. 

ember-service-worker now defaults to `versionStrategy: 'every-build'`, which should bust your cache each time you build, and it also allows you to register your service worker inline.
I typically configure it with both options explicitly.

```javascript
// ember-cli-build.js
var app = new EmberApp(defaults, {
    'esw-prember': {
      // Changing this version number will bust the cache, but you probably do not
      // want to be doing this manually, but rather using `versionStrategy` as
      // explained here http://ember-service-worker.com/documentation/configuration/#versioning
      version: '1'
    },
    'ember-service-worker': {
      registrationStrategy: 'inline',
      versionStrategy: 'every-build'
    }
  });
```

Hopefully, this will work out of the box, with a simple `ember install` for most people, and not need any configuration. Service workers are tricky though, 
so please let me know if you encounter any issues. Stay tuned for the remainder of this blog series in the coming weeks!
